[DRAFT] ENG-7652: Adds DW troubleshooting chapters (#325)
opendatahub-io/opendatahub-documentation: modules/troubleshooting-common-problems-with-distributed-workloads-for-users.adoc

:_module-type: REFERENCE

[id="troubleshooting-common-problems-with-distributed-workloads-for-users_{context}"]
= Troubleshooting common problems with distributed workloads for users

[role='_abstract']
If you are experiencing errors in {productname-long} relating to distributed workloads, read this section to understand what could be causing the problem, and how to resolve the problem.

ifndef::upstream[]

> If you cannot see the problem here or in the release notes, contact {org-name} Support.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you do not see the problem here or in the release notes, contact {org-name} Support.
```
Perhaps? "Cannot" implies ability whereas "do not" implies it just not existing here

Author: I see your point, but the suggested rewrite is also ambiguous in that it could be misinterpreted as "If you do not experience the problem ...", so I rephrased as follows:
"If the problem is not documented ..."

I think the passive voice is acceptable in this case.

Reviewer: I totally agree - love the new rewrite. Thanks!

.Diagnosis
The Ray cluster head pod or worker pods remain in a suspended state. 
Check the status of the `Workloads` resource that is created with the `RayCluster` resource.
The `status.conditions.message` field provides the reason for the suspended state, as shown in the following example:

[source,bash]
----
status:
 conditions:
   - lastTransitionTime: '2024-05-29T13:05:09Z'
     message: 'couldn''t assign flavors to pod set small-group-jobtest12: insufficient quota for nvidia.com/gpu in flavor default-flavor in ClusterQueue'

----

.Resolution
Check your cluster queue configuration to ensure that the resources that you requested are within the limits defined for the project.
Either reduce your requested resources, or contact your administrator to request more resources. 

== My Ray cluster is in a failed state

.Problem
You might have insufficient resources.

.Diagnosis
The Ray cluster head pod or worker pods are not running.
When a Ray cluster is created, it initially enters a `failed` state. 
This failed state usually resolves after the reconciliation process completes and the Ray cluster pods are running.

.Resolution

> If the failed state persists, review the pod events to identify the cause of the problem.

Reviewer 2: Wondering if the word "events" here (and throughout the doc) should be capitalised as well, given it's a tab option the user can click and view. - I don't have a strong opinion on this.

Author: We're referring to the events, rather than the tab, so we don't need to use initcap.

Author: I added some text to indicate that the events are on the **Events** tab.

.. In the new tab that opens, log in as the user whose credentials you want to use.
.. Click *Display Token*.
.. From the *Log in with this token* section, copy the `token` and `server` values.

. In your notebook code, specify the copied `token` and `server` values as follows:
+
[source,bash,subs="+quotes"]
----
auth = TokenAuthentication(
    token = "_<token>_",
    server = "_<server>_",
    skip_tls=False
)
auth.login()
----

== Kueue does not monitor my Ray cluster or PyTorch job

.Problem
Kueue does not monitor the Ray cluster, or PyTorch jobs, or other machine-learning frameworks.

.Diagnosis
The resources (for example,`RayCluster` resources and `PyTorchJob` resources) are not created.

.Resolution
Contact your administrator to request assistance.

== My pod provisioned by Kueue is terminated before my image is pulled

.Problem
Kueue waits for a period of time before marking a workload as ready, to enable all of the workload pods to become provisioned and running. 
By default, Kueue waits for 5 minutes. 
If the pod image is very large and is still being pulled after the 5-minute waiting period elapses, Kueue fails the workload and terminates the related pods.

.Diagnosis

> Review the Events of the Ray head pod to check whether the image pull completed successfully.

Reviewer 3: does "Events of the Ray" need any formatting applied? maybe bold text?

Author: Rephrased to clarify:
"Open the *Events* tab for the Ray head pod, and review the pod events to check  ..."
